So now we have these two connections.
Here on the server side, I got socket.
And I can just say socket.write
all day every day, and
everything's just gonna start
sending all that to the client.
And here on the client,
I got my WS here, right?
Which now I hear I can start accepting
messages from the server, right?
So I actually have an active connection.
So this WS here.
I can start saying here ws.send, right?
Yeah, this.
So ws.send, now this is like how
you post back to the server.
So it's a two-direction
socket between the two.
So let's go ahead and send something.
Head back to here where we
said under this socket.write
right here, we're gonna say, socket.write.
And then we'll just say, (objToResponse).
We'll look at this here in just a second.
And we're gonna send this
(msg: getMsgs() }));.
And we're gonna send our
messages down to the client.
So that mean,
this looks a lot like HTTP/2, right?
Where we're just kind of writing
to their open connection, right?
All right, let's go just peek
beneath the covers of this,
just the depths of oddity that's happening
here in this object response.js file.
We actually have to go in here, and
we have to directly manipulate the binary
that's being sent to the client.
Or elsewhere it's not gonna be sent
in the correct sort of fashion here.
So the first thing that this
object to response does,
is it takes the object that we got, and
it makes it a big whole string, right?
So this could work with anything, but
we're making it particularly work for
JSON, okay?
So we have a string here.
The first thing we're gonna do,
is how many bytes is this string?
So then we got how many
string bytes this is?
This is gonna be some
number of how long it is?
Rather not how long, but
how many bytes that is to send us?
Here, we're gonna count how many,
like the length of the byte count is.
And then we have to encode that
into the first part of the frame.
And so when I say frame, what I mean is
one packet of data that's being sent and
received from the browser
is called a frame, okay?
Here I'm gonna make a buffer
that's precisely that long,
select some area in memory where
I can start writing this two.
And then I'm just gonna start
writing the payload length.
This is kind of like a base
starting value here.
If you've never seen 0b before,
this just means in JavaScript binary.
This is a binary number, right?
It's not something you probably
have to interact with so much.
If you ever seen 0xx0 or
something like this,
the x means that this is hexadecimal,
right?
This is an ES5 thing.
So it's been around since 2015.
Anyway, that's it.
That's what that means.
So we write that, this is the buffer.
We write how long our buffer is gonna be.
And then here we actually go through.
And we write all of our information
to this buffer in binary.
And then at the end we end up with this
buffer, which is the encoded message.
So I didn't make you write this,
because it's relatively,
it's stuff that I had to look up.
It's not stuff that I ever figured out,
right?
So I didn't want you to
worry too much about it.
But I also want you to be curious and
aware this is actually sent over
this kind of is not encrypted, but
it's encoded messaging, right?
And if you use something,
like WS or Socket.io,
this is what it's actually doing for
you in the library.
Makes sense so far?
Cool.
Are you happy that I didn't make you
write this?
I'm happy I didn't make you write it,
okay?
[COUGH] So now we have a valid
message being written to the client.
So we can head back over
here to raw.chat.js.
Again, the magic of this WebSocket
object is just doing all this for you.
So all of this decoding and
encoding on the browser side,
we don't have to write anything for
it, right?
The browser's just like, cool, I got
this for you and it just does it all for
you really quick.
So under ws.addEventListener,
we're gonna add a (message).
So whenever we get a message
back from the server,
it's gonna come back in as an event And
we're gonna say,
const data = JSON.parse(event.data);.
And we're just gonna say,
allChat = data.msg;.
And render = ():.
That's it.
It's all you gotta do here.
Accept the message, parse it, grab the
information that you want, call render.
So from a client side perspective,
it's just incredibly easy to work with.
So I think we come back over here.
Yeah, now we're actually getting
real messages back from the server.
The client has everything
to do with it and
we're rendering back out exactly
what we need to the client.
>> I noticed that you put
return on a new line.
So this is on the upgrade.
We could have just returned socket.end,
right, or is that not gonna work?
>> Yeah.
So the question here is on line 27.
Why did I put return on a new end or
a new line?
I don't know what this actually returns.
So this is technically a sort of like
a WebSocket interface, there is, okay.
It's a socket is a WebSocket,
which means that this, No, maybe not that.
Maybe it's a stream of some variety.
Anyway, suffice to say,
I don't know what socket.end returns,
which means that I don't actually
care about what it returns.
So, here I'm just returning,
because I want this to end, right?
I don't want it to go do the rest of
this stuff, if we hit this body here.
But I didn't wanna return whatever
mystery that socket.end was returning.
Maybe it's some control object or
something like that.
I didn't want the consumer of
this to be able to mess with it.
You probably would be fine.
To be honest with you, if you just said
return this, it just wouldn't matter.
That's just a habit I have.
In general from writing
way too much TypeScript,
I try not to return anything that I don't
either use it, or know what it is, right?
Yeah, that's actually really what it's,
that is definitely a TypeScript
habit that I have.
Let's go listen to messages
now from the client.
This is where things get a little weird,
so bear with me.
If it wasn't already weird,
it's probably already weird.
It gets weirder.
We'll go with that.
So we're doing this all
on server.on(upgrade",
down here underneath your console.log,
save some space there.
Now we're gonna say,
hey, socket.on "data".
We need something back from the user.
Just gonna log it out really quick.
So now we can do socket.on "data".
This is gonna let us receive information
back from the client, right?
So instead of doing a post
request to some endpoint,
we're just gonna use that socket and
receive information back from the client.
Let's go write the raw chat post here.
So head back over to raw chat.
And we're gonna write this postNewMsg,
it's gonna be real simple here.
So const data = .
And then we're just gonna say,
ws.send (JSON.stringify(data));.
And that is it for what you need
to do here from the post, right?
You just put it together an object and
send the string of five
version back to the server.
And again,
just wanna shout out to the browser for
doing all the encoding here for
us with this WebSocket object.
Cuz it is getting encoding,
it's doing a bunch of heavy lifting for
you under the scenes.
It's just the browser
already handling it for you.